.TH "conqoper" 6 "" ""
.SH NAME
conqoper \- Conquest Operator (CO) program.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBconqoper\fP [OPTIONS]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBconqoper\fP is a program used to monitor and configure a conquest
game.  It is a curses based application that must be run on the same
host your server is running on.  It allows suitably privileged
individuals to view and modify various characteristics of the game, as
well as perform common administrative tasks.
.PP
In order to run \fBconqoper\fP, you must be a member of the
\fIconquest\fP group (in /etc/groups), or you must be the root user.
.PP
\fBconqoper\fP supports a few \fInon\-interactive\fP options listed
below.  When any of these options are specified, \fBconqoper\fP will
perform the requested action and exit.  When no options are specified,
\fBconqoper\fP will run in an interactive mode.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-C
Rebuild the system wide \fIconquest.conf\fP file.
.TP 8
.B \-D
Disable the game.  Clients that connect, will be told that the game is
closed after they have authenticated to the server.  If the
authenticating user is marked with the 'Play when closed flag', that
user will be allowed into the game anyway.  You can edit these flags
by selecting (\fBe\fP)dit user at the \fBconqoper\fP main menu.
.TP 8
.B \-E
Enable the game.
.TP 8
.B \-I <what> 
Initialize \fIwhat\fP where \fIwhat\fP is: \fBe\fP \- everything,
\fBg\fP \- game, \fBl\fP \- lockwords, \fBm\fP \- messages, \fBp\fP \-
planets, \fBr\fP \- robots, \fBs\fP \- ships, \fBu\fP \- universe, and
\fBz\fP \- zero out everything.  Note, when zeroing out everything,
the common block cannot be used to play.  You must still initialize
\fBe\fPverything (and enable the game).
.PP
When either the \fIuniverse\fP or \fIeverything\fP is initialized, the
game will be set to disabled by default.  You must manually enable the
game from the \fBconqoper\fP main menu, or by using the \fB\-E\fP option.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Jon Trulson
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
conquest(6), conquestd(6), conqoper(6), conqdriv(6), conqmetad(6) 
.PP
See README in the conquest distribution (usually installed in
<conquest install prefix>/etc/) for information and tips on how to
play. 
.PP
See INSTALL for instructions on unpacking, compiling, and installing
conquest, as well as information on terminfo requirements (for the
curses client) and other system specific issues.
.PP
See README.cygwin for information on building/using conquest on MS
Windows systems. 
.PP
See HISTORY for the latest news and modification history.
.PP
See CONQINIT.TXT for information on CQI, and the format of the
conqinitrc and texturesrc files.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (C)1994-2018 by Jon Trulson <jon@radscan.com> under the
MIT License.
