.TH "CONQSTRAT" "6" 
.SH "NAME" 
conqstrat \(em modify Robot strategy tables 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBconqstrat\fP [\fB-v\fP]  [\fB-d\fP]  [\fB-o \fIfile\fP\fP]  
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
This manual page documents briefly the 
\fBconqstrat\fP command. 
.PP 
\fBconqstrat\fP is a utility which reads rules from stdin to update
Robot strategy tables.  It's normal use is to update the common block
(the game's current 'state') with a 'compiled' robot AI state,
defined by a file such as \fIconqrule\fP. 
.PP
If you want to modify the robot's AI, you can do so and use
\fBconqstrat\fP to generate a conqdata.h file that can be compiled into
Conquest and used as the default when the universe is initialized. 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.IP "\fB-v\fP         " 10 
Be verbose about everything. 
.IP "\fB-d\fP         " 10 
Turn on lots of debugging. 
.IP "\fB-o \fP\fIfile\fP         " 10 
Output to \fIfile\fP.  Without this 
option, output will go to stdout.  The normal use of this option is to
generate a header file that is compiled directly into conquest
(\fIconqdata.h\fP). 
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
conquest (6), conqai (6), conqoper (6). 
.PP 
See the \fIconqrule\fP and \fIconqrule.easy\fP files for two robot
strategies supplied in the conquest distribution, and installed in
<install_prefix>/share/doc/conquest/.  \fIconqrule\fP is the original
AI (with minor fixes) supplied in the original VAX/VMS conquest
distribution.  It is also the default AI compiled into Conquest.
\fIconqrule.easy\fP is an AI that is a bit easier on new players :)
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
This manual page was originally written by Clint Adams
<schizo@debian.org> for the \fBDebian\fP system (but may be used by
others).  Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU GPL. Conquest is
.PP
Copyright (C)1994-2018 by Jon Trulson <jon@radscan.com> under the
MIT License.
