.TH "conqmetad" 6 "" ""
.SH NAME
conqmetad \- a Conquest Meta server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBconqmetad\fP [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBconqmetad\fP is a meta server for Conquest.  A meta server listens
for game availablity announcements from other \fBconquestd\fP servers
scattered about, and makes this list available to conquest clients that use the
\fB\-m\fP option.  This makes it easy for people to find prospective
games. 
.PP
The de-facto Conquest Meta server runs at \fBconquest.radscan.com\fP.
.PP
The meta server listens on port UDP port 1700 for announcements from
\fBconquestd\fP servers.  TCP connections to port 1700 cause
\fBconqmetad\fP to dump the current server list and their associated
data in an easily parsable text format, one server per line, and
disconnect. 
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-d 
Daemon mode.  
.TP 8
.B \-l
Listen for local connections only.  When this option is supplied, only
clients on the local host will be able to connect.
.TP 8
.B \-u <user>
Run as user \fIuser\fP.  
.TP 8
.B \-v
Be more verbose.  
.SH "AUTHOR"
Jon Trulson
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
conquest(6), conquestd(6), conqoper(6), conqdriv(6), conqmetad(6) 
.PP
See README in the conquest distribution (usually installed in
<conquest install prefix>/etc/) for information and tips on how to
play. 
.PP
See INSTALL for instructions on unpacking, compiling, and installing
conquest, as well as information on terminfo requirements (for the
curses client) and other system specific issues.
.PP
See README.cygwin for information on building/using conquest on MS
Windows systems. 
.PP
See HISTORY for the latest news and modification history.
.PP
See CONQINIT.TXT for information on CQI, and the format of the
conqinitrc and texturesrc files.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (C)1994-2018 by Jon Trulson <jon@radscan.com> under the MIT
License.
