.\" $Id$
.TH "conquestd" 6 "" ""
.SH NAME
conquestd \- a Conquest game server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBconquestd\fP [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBconquestd\fP is a game server for Conquest.  Clients, such as
\fBconquestgl\fP and \fBconquest\fP are used to connect to a
\fBconquestd\fP server to play the game.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-d 
Daemon mode.  
.TP 8
.B \-l
Listen for local connections only.  When this option is supplied, only
clients on the local host will be able to connect.
.TP 8
.B \-p <port>
Listen for game connnections on port \fIport\fP.  The default port is 1701.
.TP 8
.B \-m
Notify the metaserver of the presence of your game server.  When this
option is specified, \fBconquestd\fP will notify the meta server
(default \fIconquest.radscan.com\fP) of your server, so that other players
can see it in the server list and connect to it.  Do not use this option
if your server is not actually available from the Internet.
.TP 8
.B \-M <meta server> 
Notify \fImeta server\fP instead of the default meta server running at
\fIconquest.radscan.com\fP. 
.TP 8
.B \-N <my name> 
Explicitly specify server name \fImy name\fP to the meta server when
announcing your game.  This is useful if your server is accessed with
a different host name internal to your network, than the host name
that an Internet client would need to use to connect.
.TP 8
.B \-u <user>
Run as user \fIuser\fP.  This option is advised when running as root.
It is generally not a good idea to run an Internet accessable game
server as the root user :)  Only the root user can use this option.
.TP 8
.B \-v 
Be a little more verbose.  
.SH "OVERVIEW"
.PP
With version 8.0 of Conquest or better, a great deal of work has gone
into making Conquest a true client/server game playable over the
Internet (or just your local LAN).

Conquest has two main parts, the server component (conquestd) and the
client (OpenGL version: conquestgl, curses version: conquest).

To run a server, you must run the conquestd program.

Clients (including ones on your local machine) then connect to your
server and the game is played.
.SH "SETTING UP A SERVER"
.PP
\fBconquestd\fP is used to provide a Conquest game.  Even if all you
want to do is play by yourself on your own machine, you will need
to run \fBconquestd\fP in order to play.

If all you want to do is use conquest to play on someone else's
server, then you do not need to be reading this document. :)

In it's simplest (and insecure) form, you can simply run:

       $ conquestd -d

This will start \fBconquestd\fP, which will fork itself into the background
and run as your user id.

It will listen on the default port (1701) for client connections, and
spawn a new \fBconquestd\fP for each client connection.  It will be
available to anyone who can connect to TCP port 1701 on your machine.

SECURITY NOTE: I would only run a server this way if no one else from
the Internet will be able to connect (if you are behind a firewall for
example).  This is more INSECURE since \fBconquestd\fP will be running
as your uid.  Read further for a more secure way to run the server.

To support internet playes securely, start \fBconquestd\fP as root,
and have it run as user 'nobody' by passing the \fB\-u nobody\fP option on
the command line.  Of course you can create and use some other
non-privileged, non-interactive user for this task as well.

Something like the following is a good idea:

        # conquestd -d -u nobody

This will have \fBconquestd\fP setuid() permanently to user 'nobody' before
beginning operations.  On most unix systems, user 'nobody' has no home
directory, password, or privileges, and therefore is a safe user id to
run under.

You must be the root user in order to use the '-u' option.

DO NOT run \fBconquestd\fP as the root user itself.  Although the code
*should* be safe, don't take my word for it.

.SH "NOTIFYING THE METASERVER"
.PP
If you are going to run a server that will be available to the public
via the Internet, you should pass the '-m' option to conquestd when
you start it.

When running with the '-m' option, conquestd will contact the Conquest
Meta Server running at conquest.radscan.com, and announce your server,
so that other people will know about it.

Every 2 minutes or so, it will update the meta server with various
particulars of your server (like how many players are currently
connected, what flags you support, what your server name, version,
and MOTD are, etc).

This way, other people can find out about your server and connect
to it to play.

The list of currently active servers can be seen in the game by
running your client (conquestgl or conquest) with the '-m' flag.

You can also point your web browser to:

     \fIhttp://radscan.com/cgi-bin/conqmeta.pl\fP

If you want to be primitive, you can see the current list of servers
in raw format by simply:

     telnet conquest.radscan.com 1700

Of course, please make sure that your server is actually reachable
from the Internet before notifying the Meta server.

.SH "FIREWALL CONSIDERATIONS"
.PP
Most people that will run a server (or client) will also be using a
firewall of some sort to protect their networks.

Inbound access:

If you wish to allow internet access to your server, you will
need to allow inbound TCP _and_ UDP access to the game port (1701
by default).

Outbound access:

If you restrict outbound internet connections, you might want to
allow the following outgoing ports:

1700/tcp - if you want clients to be able to query the
metaserver for active servers.

1700/udp - if you want your own server to be able to announce
it's availability to the metaserver at conquest.radscan.com.
.SH "EXPIRING USERS"
.PP
By default, whenever a user logs into Conquest, an autoexpire is
run to locate and 'resign' all inactive remote users.

A user is expired: 

A) if the user is a non OPER or non robot user - no expiration is
ever done on these users.

B) the user hasn't entered the game in 'user_expiredays' days,
which is set in the system-wide conquestrc file.

C) the user isn't currently flying a ship.

If all of these conditions are met, the remote user is resigned
from the game.

You can disable user expiration altogether by setting user_expiredays
to 0.

You can configure this in the (O)ptions menu in \fBconqoper\fP.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 8
.B conquestd -d
This is \fBconquestd\fP simplest (and insecure) form.  It kicks off
into the background (running as your UID) and serves a conquest game.
.TP 8
.B conquestd -d -u nobody
When started as the root user, this will have \fBconquestd\fP setuid to
the user 'nobody' (a common, unprivileged account on unix systems) and
begin serving connections.  For an Internet accessable server, these
are the recommended minimum options to use.
.TP 8
.B conquestd -d -u nobody -l
Run the server us user \fInobody\fP, serving only local clients.
.TP 8
.B conquestd -d -u nobody -m -N conquest.radscan.com
Run the server us user \fInobody\fP, announcing your server to the
conquest meta server, and tell the meta server that Internet clients
should use the hostname \fIconquest.radscan.com\fP to connect to your
server.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Jon Trulson
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
conquest(6), conquestd(6), conqoper(6), conqdriv(6), conqmetad(6) 
.PP
See README in the conquest distribution (usually installed in
<conquest install prefix>/etc/) for information and tips on how to
play. 
.PP
See INSTALL for instructions on unpacking, compiling, and installing
conquest, as well as information on terminfo requirements (for the
curses client) and other system specific issues.
.PP
See README.cygwin for information on building/using conquest on MS
Windows systems. 
.PP
See HISTORY for the latest news and modification history.
.PP
See CONQINIT.TXT for information on CQI, and the format of the
conqinitrc and texturesrc files.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (C)1994-2006 by Jon Trulson <jon@radscan.com> under the
ARTISTIC License.
.PP
Original VAX/VMS Ratfor Conquest:
.PP
Copyright (C)1983-1986 by Jef Poskanzer and Craig Leres.  Permission to
use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation
for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that this
copyright notice appear in all copies and in all supporting
documentation. Jef Poskanzer and Craig Leres make no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.


