.TH "CONQSTRAT" "6" 
.SH "NAME" 
conqstrat \(em modify Robot strategy tables 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBconqstrat\fP [\fB-v\fP]  [\fB-d\fP]  [\fB-U\fP]  [\fB-o \fIfile\fP\fP]  
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
This manual page documents briefly the 
\fBconqstrat\fP command. 
.PP 
\fBconqstrat\fP is a utility which reads rules from stdin to update
Robot strategy tables.  It's normal use is to update the common block
(the game's current 'state') with a 'compiled' robot AI state,
defined by a file such as \fIconqrule\fP. 
.PP
If you want to modify the robot's AI, you can do so and use
\fBconqstrat\fP to either update the common block (running game) with
the new AI directly, or generate a conqdata.h file that can be compiled into
Conquest and used as the default when the universe is initialized. 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.IP "\fB-v\fP         " 10 
Be verbose about everything. 
.IP "\fB-d\fP         " 10 
Turn on lots of debugging. 
.IP "\fB-U\fP         " 10 
Update the common block directly.  This is the most common use for
non-conquest developers.  NOTE: If you then use \fIconqoper\fP to
initialize the common block, your AI will be lost and replaced with the
compiled-in default, so you will need to re\-run this command to
re\-install your own AI again.
.IP "\fB-o \fP\fIfile\fP         " 10 
Output to \fIfile\fP.  Without this 
option, output will go to stdout.  The normal use of this option is to
generate a header file that is compiled directly into conquest
(\fIconqdata.h\fP). 
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
conquest (6), conqai (6), conqoper (6). 
.PP 
See the \fIconqrule\fP and \fIconqrule.easy\fP files for two robot
strategies supplied in the conquest distribution, and installed in
<install_prefix>/share/doc/conquest/.  \fIconqrule\fP is the original
AI (with minor fixes) supplied in the original VAX/VMS conquest
distribution.  It is also the default AI compiled into Conquest.
\fIconqrule.easy\fP is an AI that is a bit easier on new players :)
You can install it in an initialized game with \fIconqstrat -U
<conqrule.easy\fP. 
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
This manual page was originally written by Clint Adams
<schizo@debian.org> for the \fBDebian\fP system (but may be used by
others).  Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU GPL. Conquest is
.PP
Copyright (C)1994-2006 by Jon Trulson <jon@radscan.com> under the
Artistic Version 2 License.
.PP
Original VAX/VMS Ratfor Conquest:
.PP
Copyright (C)1983-1986 by Jef Poskanzer and Craig Leres.  Permission to
use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation
for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that this
copyright notice appear in all copies and in all supporting
documentation. Jef Poskanzer and Craig Leres make no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.

