.\" $Id: conqmetad.man 551 2006-07-17 04:43:10Z jon $
.TH "conquestsh" 6 "" ""
.SH NAME
conquestsh \- a Conquest shell for telnet players
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBconquestsh\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBconquestsh\fP is a very simple program that executes the curses
conquest client, passing certain options, notably \fB\-t\fP.  It is
intended to be the 'shell' of an account that an operator has setup to
support telnet users.  See the \fBconquestd\fP manpage for information
on setting up a server for telnet access.  In general, you will never
want to support telnet servers.  Users should use an appropriate
client.  I run a telnet server here for the time being so that users
can get a (curses) taste, but that may go away in the future.
.PP
\fBconquestsh\fP is a very simple program that should be edited for
your tastes. 
.SH "AUTHOR"
Jon Trulson
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
conquest(6), conquestd(6), conqoper(6), conqdriv(6), conquestsh(6),
conqmetad(6) 
.PP
See README in the conquest distribution (usually installed in
<conquest install prefix>/etc/) for information and tips on how to
play. 
.PP
See INSTALL for instructions on unpacking, compiling, and installing
conquest, as well as information on terminfo requirements (for the
curses client) and other system specific issues.
.PP
See README.cygwin for information on building/using conquest on MS
Windows systems. 
.PP
See HISTORY for the latest news and modification history.
.PP
See CONQINIT.TXT for information on CQI, and the format of the
conqinitrc and texturesrc files.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (C)1994-2006 by Jon Trulson <jon@radscan.com> under the
ARTISTIC License.
.PP
Original VAX/VMS Ratfor Conquest:
.PP
Copyright (C)1983-1986 by Jef Poskanzer and Craig Leres.  Permission to
use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation
for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that this
copyright notice appear in all copies and in all supporting
documentation. Jef Poskanzer and Craig Leres make no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.
