.\" $Id$
.TH "CONQAI" "6" 
.SH "NAME" 
conqai \(em Conquest AI override program 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBconqai\fP [\fB-r\fP]  
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
This manual page documents briefly the 
\fBconqai\fP command. 
.PP 
This manual page was written for the \fBDebian\fP distribution 
because the original program does not have a manual page. 
Instead, it has documentation in plain text format; see below. 
.PP 
\fBconqai\fP is a program that allows 
suitably privileged individuals to take over robot control from the 
Conquest driver, for debugging purposes. 
.PP 
The root user is always a Conquest Operator (CO) and therefore 
can run the conqoper program.  If you want to allow other people to 
be CO's, you will need to add them to the conquest group. 
 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.IP "\fB-r\fP         " 10 
Return control of the robots to the Conquest driver.  Be sure to do
this after you are finished running conqai to debug the AI, otherwise
the robots won't do anything but sit there.
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
conquest (6), conqoper (6), conqstrat (6). 
.PP 
The programs are documented in text files present in 
/usr/share/doc/conquest/ . 
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
This manual page was written by Clint Adams <schizo@debian.org> for 
the \fBDebian\fP system (but may be used by others).  Permission is 
granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under 
the terms of the GNU GPL.  Conquest is 
.PP
Copyright (C)1994-2006 by Jon Trulson <jon@radscan.com> under the
ARTISTIC License.
.PP
Original VAX/VMS Ratfor Conquest:
.PP
Copyright (C)1983-1986 by Jef Poskanzer and Craig Leres.  Permission to
use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation
for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that this
copyright notice appear in all copies and in all supporting
documentation. Jef Poskanzer and Craig Leres make no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.
