.\" $Id$
.TH "conquest" 6 "" ""
.SH NAME
conquestgl,conquest \- Conquest game clients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBconquestgl\fP and \fBconquest\fP are OpenGL and curses based
clients, respectively, that are used to connect to a conquest server
to play. 
.PP
\fBconquestgl\fP [OPTIONS]...
.PP
\fBconquest\fP [OPTIONS]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Conquest is a multi-player, real-time space combat game.  The object
of the game is twofold. The short-range goal is to accumulate "kills"
by shooting down enemy players.  You get one kill point for each enemy
ship shot down, plus some extra if the enemy had kills too. The major
weapon used to shoot down ships is the photon torpedo.
.PP
The long-range goal is to conquer the universe for your team by taking
every \fIcore\fP planet. You take planets by killing off the enemy's armies via
bombardment, and then beaming your team's armies down. When all the
planets have been taken, the game ends, a new game begins, and the
player who actually took the last planet gets his/her name up in
lights.
.PP
The first time \fBconquestgl\fP or \fBconquest\fP is run, a directory
called ~/.conquest/ will be created in your home directory.  This
directory cantains your 'user options' data as well as the logfile.
Additionally, with \fBconquestgl\fP, texturesrc (.trc) files and
texture image data (in ~/.conquest/img/) can be stored there. See
CONQINIT.TXT for more information on what \fItexturesrc\fP and
\fItexture image files\fP are.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fBconquestgl\fP and \fBconquest\fP each take similiar options.
Where an option is only suported by a paticular client, this
difference will be noted.  If the \fI\-s\fP or \fI\-m\fP options are
not specified, the client will try to connect to a server running on
your local host at port 1701.
.TP 8
.B \-B
Benchmark mode.  When this option is specified, and playback of a
previously recorded game is specified with \fI\-P\fP, then the default
playback speed will be set to the highest speed possible (no frame
delay).  This is really only of use for the OpenGL client, but can be
specified to the curses client (\fBconquest\fP) as well.  

It's not really much of a 'benckmark' yet as it does not currently
emit any rendering statistics on exit.  The will be added in the
future. 
.TP 8
.B \-f
Run in fullscreen mode.  OpenGL client only.
.TP 8
.B \-g <geometry> 
Specify initial window width/height.  OpenGL client only.  Format is
WxH (ex: 1024x768). The default is currently 1024x768.
.TP 8
.B \-m  
Query the metaserver and provide a list of servers to choose from.
.TP 8
.B \-M <metaserver> 
Specify an alternate metaserver.  The default is
\fIconquest.radscan.com\fP. 
.TP 8
.B \-r <record file> 
Record the game to <record file>.
.TP 8
.B \-s <server[:port]> 
Connect to server running on \fIserver\fP port \fIport\fP.  The default
port is 1701.
.TP 8
.B \-P <record file> 
Play back a previously recorded game.
.TP 8
.B \-u
Disable UDP to/from the server and use TCP only.  The default is to
try to negotiate UDP and use it for certain conquest protocol
packets.  If you have problems with a server \- for example, you
always wind up stuck in the middle of Murisak when you enter the game,
try disabling UDP with this option.

.TP 8
.B \-S
Disable sound support.  If \fBconquestgl\fP was compiled with sound
support, then this option will disable the playing of all music and
effects.  OpenGL client only. 

.SH "IMPORTANT COMMANDS"
.PP
This section lists the basic commands of Conquest.  The next section
lists the more advanced / obscure commands, and at the end of this
document there is a summary list.  The list is also available in the game
via the \fBh\fP command.
.TP 8
.B 0\-9,= 
To set your warp factor, just type a digit, or \fB=\fP for your ship's
maximum warp. The ships teams have different top speeds: 8 for Cruisers, 9
for Destroyers, and 10 for Scouts.
.TP 8
.B -,+
Use \fB+\fP to raise your energy shields, \fB-\fP to lower them.  Shields
protect you from enemy weapons; however, it takes more fuel and heat
to fly with them up.
.TP 8
.B k 
The \fBk\fP command is used to set your course.  You can specify your
course a number of different ways: in degrees (0=east,90=north), via
the arrow keys (see below), a ship number (precede it with an 's'), or
a planet name.  If you set course for a planet, you have the option of
locking on to it by terminating the line with a TAB instead of a
carriage return - then you will orbit automatically when you get
there.
.TP 8
.B p,P 
These two commands fire photon torpedoes.  Lower case \fBp\fP fires one at
a time, and is less useful. Upper case \fBP\fP fires a burst of three.
When you are in the heat of battle, you will want to fire every torp
you have got (nine), so you will almost always use \fBP\fP. You can
specify the direction to fire using either degrees or the arrow keys.
.TP 8
.B *,d,D 
Lower case \fBd\fP or \fB*\fP detonates near-by enemy torps before they get
close enough to damage you.  Use this command *alot*.  Upper case \fBD\fP
detonates your own torps, for instance in case you missed.  Since you
can only have nine torps out at a time, this can be useful.
.TP 8
.B f,F
These two commands let you fire phasers.  Lower case \fBf\fP is used to
fire one phaser blast. It takes about one second to fire
phasers. Upper case \fBF\fP fires phasers again in the same direction.
.TP 8
.B B
To capture enemy planets, you first have to get rid of the enemy
armies by bombarding them.  Orbit the planet, type \fBB\fP, confirm with a
TAB, and then watch your damage closely. You will continue to bombard
until you type another command.  When your damage gets up above 60 or
70 percent, set a warp factor and get out fast.

You cannot bomb a planet down to less than 3 armies.  Once you have
reduced a planet's army count to 3, you must beam down your own armies
in order to kill the remaining armies and conquer the planet.
.TP 8
.B R
After a bombing run, you can repair your damage three times faster by
going into repair mode.  While repairing, your shields are down and
you can't move or fire.  Repairing is useful any time you are damaged.
If you are in orbit about a friendly planet when you repair, you will
repair even faster.
.TP 8
.B b
Once you have blasted a planet down to three armies, you can beam your
own armies down to do hand-to-hand combat and replace them.
.TP 8
.B m
Use the \fBm\fP command to send messages. You can send to single ships
(using the ship number), entire teams, (first letter of team name) or
everyone ("all"). You can even send messages to GOD, but don't expect
an answer.  Messages to GOD will be seen be any conquest operators
(CO's) who happen to be in the game.  

This command is useful for bothering the experts and asking them
annoying questions.  It is also useful for trading insults.  If you
type RETURN or TAB as the target of a message, the message will be
sent to the last person(s) you sent a message to.
.TP 8
.B i,TAB,RETURN
You can get information on planets and ships with the \fBi\fP command.
Pressing RETURN will show you the last information you asked for.
Pressing TAB will show you the 'next' last information you asked for.
.TP 8
.B Q 
The only way out besides getting killed is to self-destruct. There is
a 15-second time delay because it is not honorable to quit in the heat
of battle.  If the server has the \fIVacant\fP flag enabled, then you
can use the Control-Backslash key to quit immediately, leaving your
ship intact.  If you decide to go \fIVacant\fP, be careful where you
leave your ship. :)
.TP 8
.B /
To see which other people are currently playing Conquest, use the \fB/\fP
command.
.TP 8
.B h
This command gives you a short command summary (such as the one that
is found at the end of this document).
.SH "LESS IMPORTANT COMMANDS"
.PP
.TP 8
.B A
Type \fBA\fP to change your weapons/engines power allocations.  You can
either enter a new weapons allocation percentage or else type TAB to
toggle between the two extremes of 30/70 and 70/30. The power
allocation controls things like how powerful your weapons are, how
efficient your engines are, etc.
.TP 8
.B C
Cloaking device. You can activate the cloaking device by typing \fBC\fP
followed by a TAB.  While the cloaking device is in operation, you are
invisible, even to your teammates. However, the cloaker uses a LOT of
energy - so much that you can't use your weapons while it's on. A
second \fBC\fP will turn it off again.
.TP 8
.B E
Emergency distress signal. A quick way to let your team mates know
that you are in trouble is by typing \fBE\fP followed by a TAB.  Every
ship on your team (except those who are at war with your team) will
get a short message from you that includes information about your
fuel, shields, and ship damage.
.TP 8
.B H
History. This command displays the list of recent Conquest players.
.TP 8
.B O
Use this comment to enter the options menu.  From there you can
configure various things like your settings and your macros.
.TP 8
.B K
Attempt a coup. If all of your team's armies get killed, you may think
you are in deep fecal matter.  Not so - you can still get some back by
pulling a coup.  Try it.
.TP 8
.B L
List Messages.  Type \fBL\fP to review old messages that have been
sent to you.
.TP 8
.B M
Type \fBM\fP to toggle your display between the short range and long range
tactical displays.

When in the long range tactical display, you can use SPACE to toggle
the center of the map beteen your ship and the Murisak (the sun at the
center of the universe).
.TP 8
.B N
Pseudonym.  Use this command to change your battle name.
.TP 8
.B o
Orbit. Use \fBo\fP to come into orbit around a planet (or a sun, if you
want a tan).  You cannot enter orbit if your speed exceeds warp 2.
.TP 8
.B r
Refit.  If the server has enabled the \fIRefit\fP flag, and you have
at least one kill, and you are orbiting a team owned planet, you can
use this option to switch to a new ship type.  Valid types are Scout
(great engines, weak weapons), Destroyer (good engines, good weapons),
and Cruiser (weak engines, great weapons).
.TP 8
.B S
Displays a list of secondary user statistics.
.TP 8
.B t
Tractor beams.  You can use these to tow another ship, even if it is
hostile.  This can be fun when you are cloaked :)
.TP 8
.B T
Team list. Displays a list of team statistics, and information on when
and who last conqered the universe.
.TP 8
.B u
Untractor. Disengage your tractor beams if you are towing another ship
or attempt to break free of another ships tractor beam if you are
being towed.
.TP 8
.B U
Displays a list of users and some primary statistics.
.TP 8
.B W
Type \fBW\fP to change your war and peace settings.  Note that there is a
10 second delay for declaring war on another team.  Also, if you do
something nasty to another team such as bomb one of their planets,
your war with that team becomes sticky and you may not declare peace
with them until you get a new ship (by dying).
.TP 8
.B ?
To get a list of planets, use the \fB?\fP command.  Planets that must
be taken in order to conquer the universe are marked with a \fI+\fP sign.
.TP 8
.B ^L
When you type \fB^L\fP, the screen is cleared and redrawn.
.SH "DIRECTION KEYS"
.PP
The easiest and quickest way to change direction is with the direction
keys or the keypad if your terminal definition supports it.  However,
if you are prompted to enter a direction, for example to fire phasers,
or set course, you can use the letters "qweadzxc" on the left-hand
side of your keyboard, called "direction keys" for historical
reasons. The keys are assumed to be arranged as follows (if you have a
Dvorak keyboard, you are in trouble):

                    Q W E
                     \\|/
                   A--+--D
                     /|\\
                    Z X C

You can use them singly, e.g. 'd'  would  be  0  degrees, 'q'
would  be  135,  etc.  You  can  also  use  them  in
combination: "ed" would be halfway between 'e'  and  'd',
which  is  22.5  degrees; "edd" is like 'e' + 'd' + 'd' /
3, or 15 degrees.
.SH "DESTINATION SEARCHING"
.PP
There are several special strings you can use when setting course or
getting information:
.TP 8
.B ne
nearest enemy 
.TP 8
.B ns
nearest ship
.TP 8
.B nts
nearest (friendly) team ship
.TP 8
.B np
nearest planet
.TP 8
.B nep
nearest enemy planet
.TP 8
.B nrp
nearest friendly (repair) planet
.TP 8
.B nfp
nearest friendly class-M (fuel) planet
.TP 8
.B nap
nearest planet with available armies (greater than 3 total armies)
.TP 8
.B ntp
nearest planet owned by your team
.TP 8
.B wp
weakest planet not owned by your team
.TP 8
.B hp
home planet for your team
.TP 8
.B sN
ship N (where N is a integer number)
.TP 8
.B time
time of day (info only)
.PP
All of these can be abbreviated to their shortest unique string. Also,
for the planets, you can type a number after the special string to
specify an army threshold; that is, planets with less than that number
of armies won't be considered.  For example, \fBna8\fP specifies the
nearest planet with 8 (eight) or more armies, \fBnf14\fP is the nearest
fuel planet with 14 or more armies, \fBnep1000\fP is the nearest
non-scanned planet.

You can find info out about the second nearest object by terminating
your information request with a TAB instead of a carriage return. For
example, to find out about the second nearest planet type
\fBinp<TAB>\fP. 

You can't use these when firing weapons - that would be too easy.

.SH "MACROS"
.PP
Macros are sequences of Conquest commands that are issued when a
Function Key (Fkey) or mouse button (OpenGL client only) is hit.  On
PC hardware, these are the F1-F12 keys.  With certain emulators the
Shifted F1-12 keys (F13-F24) are available too.

With the GL client, version 8.1.2f or better, support for assigning
macros to mouse buttons is also provided.  Modifiers like Alt,
Control, and Shift can also be used with the mouse buttons.  Up to 32
buttons are supported with any combination of the 3 modifiers (or no
modifiers) giving you a maximum of 256 assignable mouse macros.  If
you have a 32 button mouse that is :)

Mouse and Key macros are defined in your ~/conquest/conquestrc file.
Users can edit their macro keys from within Conquest using the
(O)ptions Menu.

Here is an example for the F1 function key

       macro_f1=dP\\r

Which makes my F1 key detonate enemy torps \fBd\fP, and fire a
spread of 3 torps in the last direction I fired \fBP\\r\fP.  

The mouse only works when playing the game (in the Cockpit) and the
cursor is within the viewer window in the GL client.

Three default mouse macros are provided to give you a taste, and will
be saved in your conquestrc file the first time you run an 8.1.2f or
better version of the client.  They are:

      mouse button 0 (left): Fire phaser at <angle>
      mouse button 1 (middle): Set course to <angle>
      mouse button 2 (right): Fire Torp at <angle>

Of course you can redefine these, as well as add others.  With mouse
macros, a special character sequence, \fB\\a\fP can be used to represent
the angle of the cursor relative to the center of the viewer when the
button was pressed.

See the mouse macro comment block in your conquestrc file for a
description of the format.

There are many other interesting and useful combinations that I won't
detail... After all, choosing the right macros and using them well is
an important part of the strategy you employ against your opponents.


.SH "COMMAND LIST"
.PP
Here is a quick command reference.

                   0-9,=  set warp factor (= is 10)
                   A      change w/e allocations
                   b      beam armies
                   B      bombard a planet
                   C      cloaking device
                   d,*    detonate enemy torpedoes
                   D      detonate your own torpedoes
                   E      send emergency distress call
                   f      fire phasers
                   F      fire phasers, same direction
                   h      this
                   H      user history
                   i      information
                   I      set user options
                   k      set course
                   K      try a coup
                   L      review old messages
                   m      send a message
                   M      strategic map toggle
                   N      change your name
                   o      come into orbit
                   p      launch photon torpedoes
                   P      launch photon torpedo burst
                   Q      initiate self-destruct
                   r      refit your ship
                   R      enter repair mode
                   S      more user statistics
                   t      engage tractor beams
                   T      team list
                   u      un-engage tractor beams
                   U      user statistics
                   W      set war or peace
                   -      lower shields
                   +      raise shields
                   /      player list
                   ?      planet list
                   ^L     refresh the screen

              RETURN      get last (i)nfo.        (like 'i<RETURN>')
                 TAB      get 'next' last info.   (like 'i<TAB>')


.SH "AUTHOR"
Jon Trulson, Jeff Poskanzer
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
conquestd(6), conqoper(6), conqdriv(6), conqmetad(6), conqinit(6)
.PP
See README in the conquest distribution (usually installed in
<conquest install prefix>/etc/) for information and tips on how to
play. 
.PP
See INSTALL for instructions on unpacking, compiling, and installing
conquest, as well as information on terminfo requirements (for the
curses client) and other system specific issues.
.PP
See README.cygwin for information on building/using conquest on MS
Windows systems. 
.PP
See HISTORY for the latest news and modification history.
.PP
See CONQINIT.TXT for information on CQI, and the format of the
conqinitrc and texturesrc files.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (C)1994-2006 by Jon Trulson <jon@radscan.com> under the
Artistic Version 2 License.
.PP
Original VAX/VMS Ratfor Conquest:
.PP
Copyright (C)1983-1986 by Jef Poskanzer and Craig Leres.  Permission to
use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation
for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that this
copyright notice appear in all copies and in all supporting
documentation. Jef Poskanzer and Craig Leres make no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.


